What is clickHouse ?ClickHouse is a special kind of database that helps people store and organize data. Think of it like a giant spreadsheet. It helps people sort their data and make sense of it in a way that makes it easier to find what they need. It also makes it easier to create reports that show trends and other important information. It can help people make better decisions and save time.What is the difference between clickHouse and bigQuery ?ClickHouse and BigQuery are both column-oriented database management systems that can generate analytical data reports using SQL queries.They both have distributed architectures that allow them to scale to large data sizes, and they both support a wide range of data types.Both can be used for data warehouse applications.However, ClickHouse is open-source, while BigQuery is a paid cloud-based service.BigQuery or ClickHouse?The decision between BigQuery and ClickHouse will depend on your specific needs.BigQuery is a paid cloud-based service that is well-suited for large-scale data analysis and data warehouse applications, while ClickHouse is an open-source column-oriented database management system.If cost is an issue, then ClickHouse may be the better choice. On the other hand, if you need the scalability and reliability of a cloud-based service, then BigQuery may be the better choice.A more technical definitionClickHouse is a column-oriented SQL database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing (OLAP). It is available as both an open-source software and a cloud offering.What is OLAP?OLAP stands for Online Analytical Processing and is a type of database technology that was first developed in the 1970s. It was created to help people quickly analyze large data sets. Since then, it has become an important tool in data warehouses and other large-scale data analysis applications. OLAP databases are organised in a multidimensional structure, allowing users to quickly retrieve data from different angles. This makes it easier to analyze data across multiple dimensions, such as time, location, or product type.How does it work ?OLAP databases are divided into one or more cubes. The cubes are designed in such a way that creating and viewing reports become easy.The cube store and analyze multidimensional data in a logical and orderly manner.How is it integrated into data warehouses ?A Data warehouse will pull information from multiple data sources and formats.The extracted data is cleaned and transformed. Data is loaded into an OLAP server (or OLAP cube) where information is pre-calculated in advance for further analysis.This gives another perspective and enable us to reach different conclusions.In witch step of the ETL process do you use it ?This step is an analytics operation , and yes it is part of the ETL process.OLAP is typically used during the transform phase to aggregate data from multiple sources, store the data in an efficient way, and quickly analyze large datasets.Why Column-Oriented Databases Work Better in the OLAP Scenario ?Row-oriented DBMS !https://clickhouse.com/docs/assets/images/row-oriented-3e6fd5aa48e3075202d242b4799da8fa.gif#Column-oriented DBMS !https://clickhouse.com/docs/assets/images/column-oriented-d082e49b7743d4ded32c7952bfdb028f.gif#for more information about OLAP [click me](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/intro/#:~:text=ClickHouse%C2%AE%20is%20a%20column,software%20and%20a%20cloud%20offering.) How do you get clickHouse ? To the official websiteFast Open-Source OLAP DBMS - ClickHouseHere we have two choices either install the open source solution or use the cloud one, i’ll go with the cloud versionafter connecting with the google account, you choose your server ( actually only AWS is available but GCP is coming soon )On peut commencer les tutoriels Learn | ClickHouse