Data Governance Governance — tracking user activity with respect to policiesData governance can keep people quite busy managing the various aspects of governance across the enterprise:Business glossary — Defines terms to maintain consistency throughout the organisation. A glossary builds trust in analytics and avoids misunderstandings that impede decision-making.Data catalog — A metadata management tool that companies use to inventory and organise the data within their systems. Typical benefits include improvements to data discovery, governance, and access.Data lineage — Consider data’s journey from source to ETL tool to data science tool to business tool. Data lineage tells the story of data traversing the system in human terms.Data quality — Evaluated through a data quality assessment that determines if data is fit for use.Data security — Protecting digital data from the unwanted destructive actions of unauthorised usersDefined roles and responsibilities — Holding people accountable for adhering to governance and policiesGovernance is, first and foremost, concerned with policies and compliance. Some governance initiatives are somewhat akin to policing traffic by handing out speeding tickets. Focusing on violations positions governance in conflict with analytics development. Data governance advocates can get much farther with positive incentives and enablement rather than punishments.Benefits of Data governanceImproves data quality – Complete and Correct data helps in achieving something perfectly. Data governance makes it easy as the plan created with data governance results in data correctness, completeness, and consistency.Data Map – Data governance provides an advanced ability to understand location data-related entities, which helps in data integration.Consistent compliance – Data governance provides a platform for fulfilling the demands of regulations by the government.Building data governanceIf the integrity is not managed then it’s totally worthless so it’s important some principal should be followed that will ensure data remains high-quality and its compliance throughout the lifecycle. Here are some listed principles –Coverage – The volume and completeness of data are kept in view of and level of unique identities.Accuracy – It’s important to merge data fields from multiple sources into one centralised system.Freshness – The data records should be fresh as possible. That monitors the system continuously to confirm the last update and ensures contacts and keeps updated.**Flows –**Marketing campaigns and the company’s sales lead data flows should remain in sync and Tracks errors via the lineage of data across sources, transformation, and dependencies.**Labels and rules –**It helps in standardise organisation and visualising tags and unidentified data models. And nominate data authorities to be the source of part across connected systems.Main characteristics of data governanceAdministers the public policy and affairs of data.Exercises the sovereign authority of data and influences the databaseControls the speed or magnitude of data.Regulates dataControls the actions of data and their behaviourRestrains the dataManages political authority over dataAutomate Change Through Governance as CodeImagine you have an existing system that does some ETL, visualisation, and data science work. Let’s say you want to add a new data table, join it to another fact table, and update a model and report.The table is new data, and it should also be added to the data catalog. DataGovOps views governance as code or configuration.The orchestration that deploys the new data, new schema, model changes, and updated visualisations also deploys updates to the data catalog.The orchestrations that implement continuous deployment include DataGovOps governance updates into the change management process.All changes are deployed together. Nothing is forgotten or heaped upon an already-busy data analyst as extra work.DataGovOps deploys the changes in the catalog as a unit with the ETL code, models, visualisations, and reports.