 Table of contents :Micro services are a type of architectural style for building software that has been gaining popularity. The concept was first introduced at a tech conference in 2011 and has been adopted by many Agile enterprises such as Netflix, Amazon, Uber, SoundCloud, Groupon, eBay, to name a few.  Sam Newman, one of the most influential authors in the field of micro services, provides a minimal definition: “Micro services are small, autonomous services that work together.” AboutMicro services are applications that run independently of each other yet can collaborate in the performance of their tasks.micro services are applications with a narrow and well-defined scope, following the Single Responsibility Principle of doing one thing and doing it well.Micro services matter to those who value the time spent going through massive codebases, which is often like finding a needle in a haystack. UsesWebsite migrationA complex website that’s hosted on a monolithic platform can be migrated to a cloud-based and container-based microservices platform.Media contentimages and video assets can be stored in a scalable object storage system and served directly to web or mobile.Transactions and invoicesPayment processing and ordering can be separated as independent units of servicesData processingextend cloud support for existing modular data processing services. Micro services vs. monoliths  A monolith is a system where all functionality is deployed together as a single build and runs in the same process.The bigger the monolith, the longer it takes to test it. Every part of the monolith must be tested, and as we add new features to it, the test suite grows larger. Consequently, deployments become slower and encourage developers to pile up changes within the same release, which makes releases more challenging. Because many changes are released together, if a new bug is introduced in the release, it is often difficult to spot the specific change that caused the bug and roll it back. And because the whole application runs within the same process, when you scale the resources for one component, you are scaling for the whole application. Long story short, code changes become increasingly risky and deployments become more difficult to manage. How can micro services help us address these issues?Micro services address some of the issues associated with monolithic applications by :enforcing strict boundaries separating components. When you implement an application using micro services, each micro service runs in a different process, often in different servers or virtual machines, and can have a completely different deployment model. As a matter of fact, they can be written in completely different programming languages (that does not mean they should!).Because micro services contain smaller code bases than a monolith, and because their logic is self-contained and defined within the scope of a specific business subdomain, it is easier to test them, and their test suites run faster.Because they do not have dependencies with other components of the platform at the code level (except perhaps for some shared libraries), their code is clearer, and it is easier to refactor them. This means the code can get better over time and become more maintainable.We can make small changes to the code and release more often. Smaller releases are more controllable, and if we spot a bug, the releases are easier to roll back. How Do Micro services Work?1Micro services break each part of the codebase into multiple modular and loosely coupled components, through which each service performs one or more functions.2These individual functions should be distributed across clouds and data centers and treated as an independent service, therefore allowing each to be changed, updated, or deleted without putting the rest of the application at risk.3Communication between each service is important to ensure seamless interaction.Micro services use APIs and communication protocols to work with each other.Building the service behind an API gateway allows for easier interaction.To knowWhether starting from scratch and building a product using micro services right away or transitioning from a monolithic legacy application, micro services are a great way to have an easily maintainable and scalable product. With greater agility to create new features and fix bugs quickly, your product can get to market faster than the competition and also please your customers with quick updates. Micro services and ContainersMicro services are most easily created and maintained if each service is placed in an isolated container. By utilising cloud capabilities, you can run the service from anywhere and create a predictable environment. Each container is then a self-contained package that uses the smallest libraries and executables that are needed by that specific service.Working with many containers requires an orchestration tool to help manage the application as a whole. Docker or Kubernetes are great resources to use to help with your containerization efforts.Containerization is a great way to independently test each service without running tests on the entire application. This significantly decreases the amount of time required to run tests, thereby allowing you to get the product or new feature into the hands of end users much faster. Also, if anything were to happen with that service, it alone could be shut down to be repaired; or, if a severe issue occurs, that container could be deleted to begin again.