OKR 2025 45 45 incomplete ChatBoat (product) 46 46 incomplete Publish 20 articles ( marketing, learning) → other plateforme to share the articles 47 47 incomplete Learning plateforme - product (chatbot , Quiz, flashcards, summary, generated video/audio) 48 48 incomplete 5 MeetUps 49 49 incomplete Contacter les écoles (contrat avec 2 écoles, max juin) 50 50 incomplete Followers (14 actuel / 50 medium , 325 actuel/ 2000 LinkedIn) 51 51 incomplete Podcast GD academy  The Knowledge Cycle: A Continuous LoopInstead of a linear roadmap, we operate in a self-sustaining cycle:1⃣ WRITE → Create & Enhance Content2⃣ VIEW → Review, Validate & Structure Knowledge3⃣ MARKET & PUBLISH → Distribute, Engage & publish4⃣ PRODUCTISE → Transform Knowledge into Tools & ServicesEach phase feeds into the next, ensuring constant improvement and scalability. Step 1: WRITE → Content Creation & ExpansionGenerate articles from the actual source or create new content.Introduce the newest topicsSmall articles for small discoveries  Step 2: VIEW → Structure, Clean & Validate KnowledgeClean the content, share it to a minimum of two people then update based on feedback. Step 3: MARKET & PUBLISH → Distribute KnowledgeMaximise reach, engagement, and impact.Multi-Platform Publishing:Medium (articles, case studies)LinkedIn : with posts.Newsletters (deep insights)  Step 4: PRODUCTISE → Transform Knowledge into Tools & ServicesMake learning more interactive:AI Chatbot (GD Assistant)Knowledge Base  2025 Key Goals Content creation → 30+ articles, interactive tutorials. Product creation → Launch a chatbot & Interactive Q&A & Use AI to transform article into videos courses. Visibility and community → Grow LinkedIn & Medium audience 100x.JanuaryFebruaryMarch 44 44 complete plan new articles 4 4 complete Build project on Jira 5 5 complete Prez the roadmap to team 6 6 complete Divide the team into groups 7 7 incomplete Upgrade medium for the team 43 43 incomplete Official website upgrade 8 8 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 9 9 incomplete Publish two articles 10 10 complete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 12 12 complete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 13 13 complete Publish two articles 14 14 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 52 52 complete Create a product alpha : chatbot 53 53 incomplete meetUp 15 15 complete Create a better home for linkedIn 54 54 complete Create a better home for medium AprilMayJune 16 16 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 17 17 incomplete Publish two articles 60 b48a7bbb-9646-4a40-8414-02c10c00e5da incomplete OKR - academy 61 b234a1ad-aecc-4df5-a6ea-355d3f38822f incomplete Knowledge sharing (MCP, DBT, ..) 55 55 incomplete MeetUp (Agents, VoiceBot) 62 d22f49d3-04e4-4b36-a605-52d1144d82c3 incomplete ChatBot : learningPath Beta version 63 f5c5b2f9-b431-44c4-a9f4-b5617af8de3d incomplete Update profiles in : Medium & Linkedin 19 19 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 20 20 incomplete Publish two articles 21 21 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 56 56 incomplete MeetUp (coding, cursor/windsurf/… AI tools benchmark) 22 22 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 23 23 incomplete Publish two articles 24 24 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 57 57 incomplete MeetUp JulyAugustSeptember 25 25 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 26 26 incomplete Publish two articles 27 27 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 58 58 incomplete MeetUp 28 28 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 29 29 incomplete Publish two articles 30 30 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 59 59 incomplete MeetUp 31 31 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 32 32 incomplete Publish two articles 33 33 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. OctoberNovemberDecember 34 34 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 35 35 incomplete Publish two articles 36 36 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 37 37 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 38 38 incomplete Publish two articles 39 39 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs. 40 40 incomplete Write two articles ( rotation of people) 41 41 incomplete Publish two articles 42 42 incomplete Make a point at the end of the month: feed-back , planning , objectifs.